when Solomon had finished pray fire came
down from heaven and consumed the burnt
offering and the sacrifices and the
glory of the Lord filled the temple and
the priests could not enter the house of
the Lord because the glory of the Lord
had filled the Lord's house when all the
children of Israel saw how the fire came
down and the glory of the Lord on the
temple they bowed their faces to the
ground on the pavement and worshiped and
praised the Lord for he is good for his
mercy and doors forever then the king of
all the people offered sacrifices before
the Lord King Solomon offered a
sacrifice of twenty-two thousand bulls
and one hundred and twenty thousand
sheep so the King and all the people
dedicated the house of God and the
priests attended to their services the
Levites also with instruments of the
music of the Lord which King David had
made to praise the Lord saying for His
mercy endures forever
whenever David offered praise by their
ministry the priests sounded trumpets
opposite them while all Israel stood
furthermore Solomon consecrated the
middle of the court that was in front of
the house of the Lord for there he
offered burnt offerings and the fat of
the peace offerings because the bronze
altar which Solomon had made was not
able to receive the burnt offerings the
grain offerings and the fact
at that time Solomon kept the feast
seven days and all Israel with him a
very great assembly from the entrance of
hamath to the brook of Egypt and on the
eighth day they held a sacred assembly
for they observed the dedication of the
altar seven days and the feast seven
days on the 23rd day of the seventh
month he sent the people away to their
tents joyful and glad of heart for the
good that the Lord had done for David
for Solomon and for his people Israel
Russ Solomon finished the house of the
Lord and the king's house and Solomon's
successfully accomplished all that came
into his heart to make in the house of
the Lord and in his own house
[Music]
then the Lord appeared to Solomon by
night and said to him I have heard your
prayer and have chosen this place for
myself as a house of sacrifice when I
shut up heaven and there is no rain or
command the locusts to devour the land
or send pestilence among my people if my
people who are called by my name will
humble themselves and pray and seek my
face and turn from their wicked ways
then I will hear from heaven and will
forgive their sin and heal their land
now my eyes will be open and my ears
attentive to prayer made in this place
for now I have chosen and sanctified
this house that my name may be there
forever and my eyes and my heart will be
there
surely as for you if you walk before me
as your father David won't and do
according to all that I have commanded
you and if you keep my statutes and my
judgments then I will establish the
throne of your kingdom as I covenant it
with David your father saying you shall
not fail to have a man as ruler in
Israel but if you turn away and forsake
my statutes and my Commandments which I
have set before you and go and serve
other gods and worship them then I will
uproot them from my land which I have
given them and this has which I have
sanctified for my name I will cast out
of my son and we'll make it a proverb
and a byword among all peoples and as
for this house which is exalted everyone
who passes by it will be astonished and
say why has the Lord done thus to this
land and this house then they will
answer because they forsook the Lord God
of their fathers who brought them out of
the land of Egypt and embraced other
gods and worshiped them and served them
therefore he has brought all this
calamity on them
you